>> Kyle Simpson: Seven years ago,
Mark gave me my start in teaching.
He reached out to me,
had seen me giving conference talks, but
I had never taught anything
in this industry, whatsoever.
And he reached out and said, hey,
I think you should give it a shot.
And he took a couple of weeks to coax me,
mostly because I was having to
come up to snowy, cold Minnesota.
But he took a couple weeks to coax me and
I came up here and gave my first workshop.
And midway through that day, it clicked in
my mind that this is what I wanted to do,
and this is what I'm here for,
is to teach.
So I'm a teacher now full-time,
thanks completely to Mark.
So I always appreciate that and
I always feel like I'm coming back home,
if you will,
when I come back to Frontend Masters.
So this course, we're gonna be
talking about JavaScript and
we're gonna be talking about it much more
deeply than you're used to likely going.
Most people may know that I have a fairly
strong online presence
under the name GETIFY.
So if you've read my Twitter streams,
especially lately,
I've been talking a lot about all this
stuff while preparing the course.
But you can find all of my
thoughts on my Twitter, on GitHub,
that's my email address.
So feel free to reach out or
look for more of that information.
I've written a number of books including
the You Don't Know JS book series.
A lot of material from this course tracks
directly with the first three major books
of the series.
The Scope and Closures book,
the This & Object Prototypes book, and
the Types & Grammar book.
So those are the best places to go after
this course to get more information.
You can read those for free or
you can purchase them.
I always appreciate
purchases if you like those.
So I wanna talk to you a little bit about
why we're gonna jump into JavaScript so
much more deeply.
Rather than a broad survey of every kind
of framework and acronym that's possible,
why are we diving deep into JavaScript,
and why does that even matter today?
Because it seems the trend is nobody
even writes JavaScript anymore.
They write something else,
whether it's TypeScript or
an entirely different language like Go or
Closure.
But nobody seems to really
write their JavaScript.
I mean, nobody even ships
JavaScript that they wrote anymore.
They ship the code that 14 layers of
Babble transformations have done.
So why does it even matter why
we learn and understand and
why should we learn and
understand JavaScript?
So I wanna, just a quick brief, this is an
overview of what we're gonna be covering.
This is obviously very simple code, but
this is actually something
that I experienced or
I learned just recently, in the
preparation and buildup to this course.
So most of you probably
know about the ++ operator.
And that when it shows up in the postfix
position, like it is here on line 3,
when it shows up in that postfixed
position it's an after increment.
So it gives you the value and then it
increments, which is why x++ still returns
us 40, but then x has been updated to 41.
And then on line 6 we have
the pre-increment which does the updating
first and then returns the value,
which is why on that line we get both 42s.
Now I've had in my head and I think most
developers have had in their head a mental
model for what the ++ operator is doing.
Yes, there's the before and
after kind of nuance, but
I've had in my mind that essentially,
this ++ operator is basically x+1.
And I think most people probably
think that that is the case.
And so
I was digging into this in particular, and
you'll find out later in
the course why I was thinking so
deeply about something as
sort of nuanced as this.
But I was trying to think about if
you have ++ on some value and it's in
the postfix position, does that mean that
the value comes back completely untouched?
I assumed that that was the case, that it
returned the value completely untouched
and then it made whatever
increments it updated.
So the question then becomes, well, what
happens when you use ++ in that postfix
position, but you use it on some
value that's not already a number?
And we're gonna be talking in just a
little bit in this course about types and
coercion.
And I'm gonna get real
deep into this topic.
But the question becomes,
what happens when there's a string
representation of a number and
then you do something fundamentally
mathematic like incrementing it?
In my mind thought process, again,
because thinking of x++ as x equals x+1,
I was thinking, well,
it will return this string 5, and
then it'll coerce that string 5 to
the number 5 and update it to 6.
That was the mental model I had.
And it turns out that even though that
seems reasonable, that's not what happens.
It turns out that it goes ahead and
coerces it to a number first, or
at least that's what appears to happen.
You notice that I didn't get back
the string 5 there on line 7,
I got back the number 5.
So it does go ahead and
modify, in a sense,
the value if it needs to coerce it to
a number, before it does any incrementing.
So it's not even really an after,
it's sort of in the middle.
It's kind of a strange thing.
And this was a nuance that had
never occurred to me before.
Now I'm not suggesting that you're gonna
run across these problems in code.
But this is to be illustrative
of a larger point,
which is that we as developers tend
to assume mental models about code.
And then when bugs happen,
and I say when, not if,
when bugs happen we blame the language,
right?
We blame the language.
JavaScript clearly must have been
designed poorly because this happened.
Now I have lots of opinions.
Those that follow me know,
I have lots of opinions on JavaScript.
I'm never at a loss for those.
I like to say the only thing I'm
an expert on is my own opinions, right?
I'm never at a loss for those.
So I have lots of opinions on whether or
not some particular thing was a good or
smart or
wise decision in the design of JavaScript.
But what I never think
is appropriate is for
us to take something where
we get surprised and
say, because we're surprised,
therefore JavaScript is at fault.
If you ask a room of C++ developers,
have you ever read any part
of the specification for C++?
Most hands will go up, same for Java.
But if I ask that same question, and I do,
all over the world I ask this question
almost every time, how many of you have
read any part of the JavaScript spec?
And I hardly ever get any hands.
And I think part of what I'm getting
at here is that many developers in
the JavaScript community seem to think
that JavaScript with its low barrier to
entry, should be so automatically
understandable, so intuitive,
that if it's not immediately intuitive,
therefore it was poorly designed.
As if we don't own a responsibility
to learn how our tool works.
So if you're looking for any sort of
overarching theme to what I teach and
why I teach and specifically this course,
it is that that's not good enough
as developers for us to assume something,
our assumption to be incorrect.
And then when we get bitten by it
we shift the blame to someone else.
Instead of most developers
in other communities saying,
well, the fault is my own.
I didn't understand it enough, okay?
So here, when I experienced it coming back
as the number 5 instead of the string 5,
I didn't say, stupid JavaScript,
how could you be so poorly designed?
My question was why, what specifically?
And there's really only one
way to answer that question.
So the question of have you ever
read any part of the specification
is really an ever-present question that
you should always be asking yourself.
If I don't understand something,
where is that source of authority?
I actually had this argument recently
where somebody said, I don't know,
the JavaScript engine is
the source of authority.
No, it isn't.
The specification is
the source of authority.
And if you're wondering why does something
do it, why am I seeing this behavior?
Why does it seem weird or mysterious or
black box or buggy or whatever?
The first question you need to ask is what
does the specification say should happen?
And then ask does my behavior
that I'm seeing match the spec?
If they don't match, well,
then you have a bug.
But if they do match, then you
have a different sort of a bug and
it's a bug inside of your brain
which is incorrect thinking.